
Judiciary on Cow 
 
Outlines:
Raj HC recent recommendation remained in headlines, 
Correlate with current issue: Coincidentally verdict came huge debate/chaos there once again over recent ruling
Talk About recommendation: rightly address that what should be the approach towards the animal like cow, when it has remained core place in economically & socially.
Bcoz opinion asserted by HC couldn’t be fit in line with current ecosystem where animals like Cattle are only seen as the asset of producing milk.
It was hurting to the pseudo secular propagandists, who promote the cow slaughtering with their aim to target the Dharmic traditions on the pretext of citing it as the true sign of revolution or progression. <Rana Ayyub>
Notably, the said directions have been come from judiciary, and not from the govt; so direct criticism hasn't been seen so far, otherwise there could have been huge outrage happened.
By the way, the said verdict isn’t the first ever in which judiciary have given the recommendations in the direction to protect the cow, there have been other rulings also from the various High Courts and Supreme Court; where judiciary has observed and agreed upon the fact that there is an necessity to protecting cow from slaughtering.
Below are the few instances;
 
1.
Supreme  Court  of India – Case titled Mohd. Hanif Quareshi & Others vs The State Of Bihar And Connected. Date - 23 April, 1958
 
The Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals Act  ,1955,  put  a  total  ban on the slaughter  of  all  categories  of  animal,,  of  the  species  of bovine  cattle.
 
No exception was made in  any  of these Acts permitting slaughter of cattle  even  for  bona fide religious purposes.  These three Acts were enacted in  pursuance  of the directive principles of  State  policy  contained in Art. 48 Of the Constitution.
 
 The  petitioners,  who  were engaged in the butcher's trade and its  subsidiary undertakings, challenged the constitutional validity of  the  three  Acts on the grounds that they infringed their  funda‐  mental rights guaranteed under Arts. 14, 19(1)(g) and 25  of the  Constitution. 
 
In the 1950s, several northern states had enacted a blanket ban on slaughter, similar to the ones recently enacted by MP and Karnataka. The constitutionality of these laws was challenged before the Supreme Court of India in Mohd. Hanif Qureshi’s case in 1958, where three thousand petitioners, mostly Muslim butchers, argued that these laws violated their fundamental rights to property, trade and profession, and religion. The Supreme Court rejected claims rooted in religious practice, holding through their own interpretation of the Quran that cow sacrifice was not mandatory for Muslims. However, they also found that an absolute ban on cow slaughter was not a reasonable restriction, as it did not necessarily lead to “preserving and improving the breed,” or better agriculture. The petitioners were able to establish that cows after a certain age became uneconomic to support and constituted a burden on the resources needed to maintain productive cattle, that proposed plans for government maintenance of uneconomic cows were more expensive than primary education, and that uneconomic cows were being turned loose by their owners who were unwilling to maintain them. 
 
2.
  State of Madras v. Smt.  Champakam Dorairajan, [1951] S.C.R.  525, followed. 
 
 The  ban on the slaughter of cows even on the slaughter  day  did  not violate the fundamental rights of  the  petitioners 
under  Art.  25  as it had not  been  established  that  the  sacrifice  of a cow on that day was an obligatory overt  act  for a Mussalman to exhibit his religious belief and idea. 
 
3. 
Superme Court - State Of Gujarat vs Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab
 
 
What changed was the decision of the Supreme Court in Mirzapur Moti Kureshi in 2005, where the court reversed a long line of decisions from 1958, accepting the assertion of the Gujarat government that new developments in technology and veterinary care had extended the economic life of the cow. Chief Justice Lahoti relied heavily on the fact that even after they ceased to give milk, cows produced dung and urine which had value as manure and fuel. The court famously described cow dung to be more valuable than the Kohinoor diamond. Finally, the court made a plea holding that an animal that had served human beings is entitled to compassion in old age. This was followed by the Hinsa Virodhak case, where the Supreme Court upheld the closure of slaughterhouse and abattoirs during a Jain religious festival, on grounds of religious sentiment. Since 2008, the Supreme Court has retreated from the Mirzapur judgement, making it clear that an absolute ban on cow slaughter was not constitutionally required or desirable. However, its recent jurisprudence sets precedent for imposing the dietary preferences of a few, in this case practicing Jains, upon many. 
 
4.
 
The writ petitioners had obtained leave under Order 1, Rule 8 of the Code of Civil Procedure and joined Respondents 7 to 21 representing the Muslim community. The writ petitioners contended before the High Court that the State of West Bengal Respondent 1 before the High Court had wrongly invoked Section 12 of the Act when it exempted from the operation of the Act, the slaughter of healthy cows on the occasion of BakrI'd on the ground that such exemption was required to be given for the religious purpose of Muslim community. The Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court after hearing the contesting parties took the view that such slaughter of cows by members of Muslim community on BakrI'd day was not a requirement of Muslim religion and, therefore, such exemption was outside the scope of Section 12 of the Act.
 
 
5.
 
Bombay High Court - Shaikh Zahid Mukhtar vs The State Of Maharashtra
 
Date -  6 May, 2016
 
Cattle Preservation and Development Committee (1947-48)[edit]
The Cattle Preservation and Development Committee was appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture in November 1947 to consider the question of banning slaughter of cattle in all its aspects and to recommend a comprehensive plan of action for preserving the cattle wealth of the country and for promoting its development.[75] The Committee, under the Chairmanship of Sardar Bahadur Datar Singh, was constituted by a Government Resolution, dated 19 November 1947. The final recommendation of the Datar Singh Committee read, "This Committee is of the opinion that slaughter of cattle is not desirable in India under any circumstances whatsoever, and that its prohibition shall be enforced by law. The prosperity of India to a very large extent depends on her cattle and the soul of the country can feel satisfied only if cattle slaughter is banned completely and simultaneous steps are taken to improve the cattle, which are in a deplorable condition at present." 
 
Uttar Pradesh Committee (1948) and Nanda Committee (1954)[edit]
A Committee was constituted in Uttar Pradesh in 1948, which included prominent persons from all communities, including the Nawab of Chattari, and UP High Court Justice Maharaj Singh. This Committee supported the recommendations of the Sardar Datar Singh Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
Article 48: 
 
Article 48 of the Constitution of India mandates the state to prohibit the slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle
 
Organisation of agriculture and animal husbandry The State shall endeavour to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines and shall, in particular, take steps for preserving and improving the breeds, and prohibiting the slaughter, of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle
 
http://www.livelaw.in/ban-on-cow-slaughter-the-camouflage-of-article-48/
 
 
The Jaipur Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in his order dated 30.05.2017  urged the Centre to christen the Cow as India’s national animal.
 
The suggestions were made by Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma in a petition filed in 2010 seeking protection of cows kept in the state’s Hingonia Goshala and other cattle shelters.
 
Further, the Court has suggested that the punishment for cow slaughter be increased to life imprisonment.
 


http://www.livelaw.in/ban-on-cow-slaughter-the-camouflage-of-article-48/
