Judiciary on Cow 
 
With recent recommendations passed by Rajasthan High Court to Center over the Cow, judiciary also became a part of the Beef Controversy, knowingly-unknowingly. The said verdict has been in the headlines since it was announced; and the reason for such hype is quite obvious for its sheer coincidence. The chaos over the Govt’s recent notification to regulate Cattles trading was not calmed down and this judgment gave the oxygen to it.
The recommendation for advocating to prevent slaughtering of cow, as being a sacred animal of Hindus was naturally disturbing pseudo secular propagandists, who promote the cow slaughtering with their aim to target the Dharmic traditions on the pretext of citing it as the true sign of revolution or progression. 
https://twitter.com/snameen/status/868890891389415426

Another reason for their over annoyance was due to verdict cited the grounds which were referenced from the various scriptures of Hinduism, Vedas, and etc. 
The pseudo secular brigade got the another chance to attack on the sentiments and belief of Dharmic Tradition through this, because opinion asserted by HC was not getting fit with current secular narrative where all animals including cow are only seen as the asset of giving meat and leather.
Notably, the said direction has been come from judiciary, and not from the govt; so brigade coundn’t launch direct criticism over it as it could land them up to fall into contempt of court; otherwise there could have been huge outrage happened over it. They started doing mockery out of it, and by this they were trying to divert the narrative which was against them due to their anti-majority mindset was exposed by promoting beef festivals and slaughtering Cow in public.

By the way, the said verdict isn’t the first ever in which judiciary have given the recommendations in the direction to protect the cow for its valuable importance; there have been other rulings also from the various High Courts and Supreme Court; where judiciary has observed and agreed upon the fact that there is a necessity to protecting cow from slaughtering.
Earlier, after independence many states from north India constituted their State wise Acts for the ban on Cow Slaughter. These acts were constituted in pursuance of the directive principles of State policy contained in Art. 48 Of the Constitution. The article mandates the state to prohibit the slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle; and it says as quoted below;
“ The State shall endeavour to organise agriculture and animal husbandry on modern and scientific lines and shall, in particular, take steps for preserving and improving breeds, and prohibiting the slaughter of cows and calves and other milch and draught cattle.”

Many judgments were also passed in line with the article 25 in the favor to ban the Slaughtering of Cattle, some of them are included below;
•	In Supreme  Court  of India – 23 April, 1958
 Mohd. Hanif Quareshi & Others vs The State of Bihar and connected.
In this famous case of Mohd. Hanif Qureshi in 1958. The Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals Act, 1955, was enacted by Bihar state to put a total ban on the slaughter of all categories of animal of the species of bovine cattle. In the said case around three thousand butchers from Muslim community filed the petition on the ground that the ban violate their fundamental rights to property, trade and profession, and religion. But SC did not agree upon the arguments and uphold the HC order with rejecting their claims of mandatory religious practice of cow sacrifice as per the Quran.

•	Supreme Court –  2005
State Of Gujarat vs Mirzapur Moti Kureshi Kassab
Another landmark judgment of Supreme Court is of Mirzapur Moti Kureshi, 2005; constitution bench had heard a challenge of ban of cow slaughter in Gujarat. While giving passing the verdict in favor of Cow Slaughter ban court observed that there is no infringement of fundamental right, as slaughtering of other animals is not prohibited. It also said that protection of cow is “in the interest of the nation’s economy”.
•	Supreme Court –  1994
STATE OF W.B. Vs. RESPONDENT:  ASHUTOSH LAHIRI

In the case of seeking exemption to sacrifice the cow, on the BakrI’d, a religious day for Muslims. The petitioners have sought the permission on the basis of Article 25(1); which says the freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion.
 
 While upholding the high court’s order, SC directed that quoted; “slaughter of  cows  on BakrI'd was not an essential religious practice for Muslims, total  ban on cow's slaughter on all days including  BakrI'dday  would  not be violative of Article 25(1).”

Committees were also constituted by the Govt over the time since the time of Independence to mull over the protection of Cattle. Few of them are mentioned below; The Cattle Preservation and Development Committee (1947-48), which was constituted by a Government Resolution was in strong opinion to enact complete ban on Cattle Slaughterhouse, and gave the final recommendation that, “This Committee is of the opinion that slaughter of cattle is not desirable in India under any circumstances whatsoever, and that its prohibition shall be enforced by law. The prosperity of India to a very large extent depends on her cattle and the soul of the country can feel satisfied only if cattle slaughter is banned completely and simultaneous steps are taken to improve the cattle, which are in a deplorable condition at present." 
 The another committee named as Uttar Pradesh Committee of 1948, which included prominent persons from all communities had also reached to the conclusion in line with the previous committee and advocated for the ban on Cattle Slaughterhouse.
